In this video we will try to focus on files but why do we need files in the first place. Most of the data which we use in variables are temporary data. What if you want to store something for a longer period but then in a simple format and the best way to go for is text so let's imagine if we have a text file her The best way to go for is text so let's imagine if we have a text file here which is my data and inside this my data I have some data. I want to use this data in a code so how do I open this file in our code? python is the easiest language and to do all this stuff we already have some inbuilt functions. When you open a file you have to show your purpose. o have to mention the file name and you need to also mention the mode now it is mode here see when I work with a file of course there are different power you can use files one of these will be used file is to rate the file. Open is giving you everything except one thing which is the data of course how do you fetch data it's very simple actually. very simple you just need to use odd here the moment you say our it means you are opening this file for greeting okay so we have done with the opening your file but then if you want to handle that file you will save that file somewhere. Python allows you to print a data from a file in Python. When you say read it will print everything when you say we'd line and that's one this code you can see it only prints the first line. If you don't want to print the entire file you can print only one line. After every line you have a new line and in this data as well you have new line right. nter will move to the third line let's verify so let's run this code. Second line is the disco on YouTube now you are you thinking why we got this space here it's because print itself will give you a new lines. In order to write the data first of all let me remove that C we cannot use our to write something we have to use W to write some things what I do is let me use another file here we'll say f1 and let me open that file and you have to mention the file name here as well. The way you can print data is by saying f1 dot and you can use a w. The way you can print data is by saying f1 dot and you can use a write command so you can say it right and here you can write something I will say something ok let's see what happens now so let's run this code. You can see we are not printing anything in the console that's why we're not getting any stuff here. We have two files right we have ABC and we have my data. First read all the data from my data and then write everything in ABC. The best way is you can actually use Ford lobe and you say for data in F right so. e output look at the file can you see that we lost all the previous data right so we lost something we lost people we only have laptop now. The best way is to use Ford lobe and you say for data in F right so what it will do is it will run a loop and on a file F of course it will try to fetch everything one by one. now when your file will get over that will be impossible to track so the best way  is you can actually use Ford lobes. In files we have two different modes one is character mode and second is binary mode now when you work with file and that file has data like actors numbers you can use a character format but here you're walking with a file wide which is an image. We don't have characters inside image right we have numbers we are binary format and that's why you need to use binary format. H is an image and when you work with image we don't have characters inside image right we have numbers we are binary format and that's why you need to read this file in a binary format now how do you mention that it's very easy simply use our B so RB means read binary and now let's run this code. Manolis shows you how to work with files with characters and Manolis. Manolis shows how to print a picture with two copies of the same image. Let me know in the comment section if you are enjoying this series and if you have any doubts as well so that's it hit that like button and do subscribe for for the video bye bye.
