This tutorial is not for absolute beginners. If you are looking for a beginner level tutorial series i have many on my channel. i will link a ton of resources down below. Let's go ahead and get started and get into python as fast as possible  to get started we need to download and install python. i need to thank simply learn for sponsoring this video and giving you all a discount on their data scientist master program. The program is comprised of six unique courses that implement a unique blended learning experience in a high engagement online classroom environment. Learn to testify to your skills as an expert in data science get started by hitting the link in the description. In python there is a simple function called print this is how you output something to the console when you run your program. When you print something you'll put it in strings so i want to print say hello world so i will print the string hello world like that. If i just type hello world and i don't put it inside of a string and i run my program i will get an error this is because i cannot simply print something like this. If you do a comma and then type end equals you can denote what you want the end of this print statement to be by default the end here is a carriage return which is backslash n. If i want to print many things on the same line i can go hello i could say end i can say 87 and i can run this and this will all work hello and 87 false. A variable is like a bucket that stores some data or stores some type. If i want to access the value that is stored in hello what i can do is i can simply say print hello. variables are somewhat complex you can make them equal to other variables if i decide to change the value of world to actually be equal to the variable hello. In python the convention is typically to separate things using an underscore in other languages. You cannot start a variable with a number so 9 hello notice i'm getting the red line popping up here. We could have capitals in our variable name if we want that would be fine but i'm not going to do that. What will happen is whatever we type in will be returned to us in this statement as a string and it will be assigned to this variable. What will happen is whatever we type in will be returned to us in this statement as a string and it will be assigned to this variable name. We're going to move on and talk about how we can actually convert say numeric input into a integer or float. The next topic i want to cover is arithmetic operators these essentially are like plus minus multiplication exponent how you perform mathematical operations. The maximum precision in python i believe is 13 decimal points there is ways to get beyond that but that is kind of too advanced. The division operator returns a float because it does not know if it's going to need to represent a floating point or some level of precision. The order of operations in python is brackets exponents division multipli. The order of operations in python is brackets exponents division multiplication addition subtraction python does follow those standard order of operation if you just write an expression. It's always easier to use brackets and spread things out so i can say something like x mod y and then i can multiply that by two since i didn't say it. The program doesn't know what to do with that so think about this why is num a string we typed in 5 this should be an int value. whenever you have at least one float in your arithmetic it's going to automatically return to you a float. A method simply is something with a dot operator so we have do A method simply is something with a dot operator so we have dot we have sum and name whatever the method name is in this case it's going to be upper. These are useful when you're getting user input and you want to validate and check if it's equal to something which we will do later on. The method called count counts a specific string within the string so it looks for a substring in the string.  d called count counts a specific string within the string so it looks for a substring in the string and how many times that occurs. Two lowercase l's are not the same as two uppercase l's so that's why it's very important to make sure you're differentiating between capitals and lowercases. In python you can multiply a string by an integer and that will simply repeat the string the integer number times. A condition is simply something in python that evaluates or compares two variables or data types and returns to us either a true or false value based on the comparison. E. e conditional operators and let me show you an example of condition let's say i have x equals hello and y equals hello i want to check for the comparison so i might do something like  ng the integer number times. Every single character inside of python is represented by what's known as an ascii code. A chained conditional is essentially combining multiple conditions together to create one larger condition. Here is a basic example i have three conditions right i have result one result t. e x equals hello and y equals hello i want to check for the comparison so i might do something like print x equals equals y.  conditional operators have a lower precedence than all of the arithmetic operators so if i do something like z minus two less than x plus two well that's not going to say z. You can actually write expressions on each side of a conditional operator. Three keywords are what i can use to chain conditionals together and create larger larger conditions from specific conditions themselves. The or and not keyword essentially says okay is what's on the left hand side and theright hand side true  The way it actually goes is not is first and is second and or is last so just keep that in mind because that will be important based on the way that you write your expression. The if statement essentially allows us to actually check if something occurs or if a condition is true. The syntax of an if statement is if condition colon indented block whatever i want to happen in the indented blocks. If x is equal to and then the string tim with the capital t i will simply print you are great. The l if statement can be used as many times as we want but it must come after an if and it must be before any elses so i can't just go ahead and start writing these random elifs everywhere. The l of syntax is the exact same except  except  s. s well what i can do is i can print i can add this else this else. In the next few sections i'm going to be talking about collections how we deal with collections looping over collections and all of that fun stuff. The two collections we're going to discuss here in this section is list and tuples. The first thing to look at on a list is this function called len len will tell us the length of the list. Pop is a way to remove an element from a list. Pop is the index of what we want to remove from the list. When we print x dot pop what this will do is it will print high and it will remove high from theList. actually access elements in theList? How do i deal with the list? Tuple is really an immutable list you can think of it like that it means it cannot be changed once it has been defined. If we want to change it we actually have to redefine it so what i can do is i can print out say x0 and that's fine that will give me the correct answer. But if i go ahead and do something like x 0 equals 5 and i try to do that you're going to notice we get an error. A for loop allows us allows us to iterate a set number of times. It can be used to print numbers from 1 to 10. You can have lists inside of lists so i can say something like x dot append i can try but you're going to notice that again we'll get another error. By default our range will start at zero and we will go to whatever number we put here most of the times you're just going to put one number and this defines the ending range. If we add 3 we'll include a step and that tells us how much we should increment every single time by default we increment by 1 but we can increment by 2. If we print i it will simply print all of the numbers in that collection or in that list. If we wanted to keep track of what index we were at we could say x equals the list we'd say 4i in x and then um well sorry that actually would not be the right way to do. We could instead of just printing i we could print x square brackets i. The while loop in python can be implemented with a break statement. The while loop can also be implemented using the while true and while true plus operator. The slice operator is personally my favorite part of python there is implementations in other languages but none of them are as nice as python in my opinion and what this allows us to do. A slice operator is an easy way to reverse a list in python. When we do the slice operator we don't have to include all of these different things as arguments. What we can do is just include a stop. If we leave a blank we're assuming it's either the end or the beginning or one in the case of a step. A set is simply an unordered unique collection of elements. To create a set is pretty straightforward we can say x equals set and we use the open bracket and close bracket now the reason we don't actually write something like say s equals and then this is because what this will do is create a dictionary. o 2 and step by negative 1. D step by two we get hlo. The set operations are pretty straightforward we can add something to a set with s dot add. We can do for example the intersection or the union of these sets. Using a set is very beneficial when it comes to looking things up checking if something's in there removing and deleting. Sets are essentially a key value pair you have some key you have a colon and the word set. Sets are essentially a key value pair you have some key you have a colon and then a value that it corresponds to. A dictionary is essentially a list it could be a single value like that. To add a new key is pretty straightforward what you can do is you can say x inside of square brackets you can define whatever key you like. The dictionary is so fast you can kind of assume that it's in constant time although there is a chance there will be something known as hash collisions although i'm not going to talk about that. What we can do here in terms of operations on the dictionaries we can check if something is in the dictionary. We can get all the values from the dictionary so we can say x dot values.  python is one of the only programming languages that actually has this a lot of people absolutely hate it but i personally love it. The way this works is essentially we can actually define a for loop inside of this list and what it will do is say okay we're going to loop through as if we normally would. If if i is divisible by five then what we can do is actually add it into the list. This also works for dictionaries in fact let's just do the same thing here. Python has a feature called functi that is not in many other languages. It allows you to construct tuples in a way that returns a generator object. This can be used in a whack of different things. It's one of the best features of python and i'll be talking about it in this video. F functions are actually objects which means you can technically return them i'll show that in a second but let me talk about arguments first. Let's say i want to add the argument x y inside of here of course that means now when i call the function i need to add some value for x and for y so let's go five six. R1 comma r2 equals func 5 6. The unpack operator is an advanced way of defining a function. You can put a function inside of another function. It's not calling the function it's simply returning it. The star star quarks are a type of quark. It is a type that can be passed around just like a variable. The unpack operator unpack whatever we have in a tuple or a list or some kind of collection and sends it through as arguments to a function. The best example of this is the print statement if i print asterisk x which means unpack x. The naive way to do this would be to go func okay pair and then pair 1. Starargs and star star quarks allow you to pass in an unlimited amount of regular arguments and keyword arguments. If i wanted to actually use any of these what i can do is i can unpack them so first of all i canUnpackStarArguments. UnpackStarStarQuarks. This is just defining scope and global. There is a notion of a scope so we have x equals tim we have defined func and then we have name as a parameter and what we're doing is we're going to change x to be equal to name. There's a keyword called raise maybe in java you've seen something like throw and raise can raise an exception if you wanted to do that. In python rather than having like a try catch we actually have a try except finally block so what i can do is do something like try that means i'm going to try to perform whatever code is inside of here. If i raise an error then i can create an except block i can accept an exception as e and then so i could print out that exception and we can continue running the program. Lambda is a one-line anonymous function in python. It takes one argument which is x and it's going to return x plus 5 not multiplied by x. There also is a notion of a finally block the final block will run no matter what. In the next one you'll see why these are useful and now i'm going to talk to you about map and filter. Using map to map a list is like adding 2 to every single element of a list. Using filter does something a little bit different. It's going to tell us whether or not we should include the item in our final filtered list or filtered object so essentially this function or whatever function we put inside of here ha. The function take some value i tells us if it' F strings are new in python 3. 6 if you have any version lower than that you are not going to be able to use f strings. F strings are a really cool way to actually just manipulate and create strings. The f string can be used to embed variables in a string without concatenating them. The f string can be used to embed variables in a string without concatenating them. The f string works by putting an expression inside of these curly braces it will be evaluated and then it will turn into a string. This is a great easy way to work with strings of course you can print an f string as well. This video is part of a series on python tutorials. Nt to be seen next. nt to see next. t to see what the world is going to do next. i.e. what's going to happen in the next few days. n not to see the next. e.g. what will happen to the U.S. economy.