This tutorial is not for absolute beginners. If you are looking for a beginner level tutorial series i have many on my channel. i will link a ton of resources down below. Let's go ahead and get started and get into python as fast as possible  to get started we need to download and install python. If you're using vs code there is one little bit of setup we need to do to get started here we simply need to install the python extension. python is a general purpose programming language it is very easy to learn versatile and really easy to write in the core advantage of python is typically how simple it is how easy the syntax is to read.  python is a language used in machine learning artificial intelligence and data science related tasks. i need to thank simply learn for sponsoring this video and giving you all a discount on their data scientist master program that was co-developed with ibm. The program is comprised of six unique courses that implement a unique blended learning experience in a high engagement online classroom environment. Learn to testify to your skills as an expert in data science get started by hitting the link in the description. i want to start by covering the core data types in python these are int float string and bool and otherwise known as integer. An integer or int is simply any whole number that does not have a decimal point on it. This is a sequence of characters or numbers so if i type. hello and i type something like hello these two strings are actually completely equivalent. If you want to embed a double quotation mark or a single quotation mark in the actual string itself then you would usually wrap the string with the opposite type of quotation mark. These are the four core data types in python. In python there is a simple function called print this is how you output something to the console when you run your program. When you print something you'll put it in strings so i want to print say hello world so i will print the string hello world like that. If i just type hello world and i don't put it inside of a string and i run my program i will get an error this is because i cannot simply print something like this. If you do a comma and then type end equals you can denote what you want the end of this print statement to be by default the end here is a carriage return which is backslash n what that means is go to the next line after this line is printed. If i want to print many things on the same line i can go hello i could say end i can say 87 and i can run this and this will all work hello and 87 false. The default behavior of the print statement and prints on a new line. is go to the next line after this line is printed now notice if i don't add this backslash enter in fact let me just show you what happens by default so let's say i have hello and 87 i'm going to get rid of this and i print both these things out. A variable is like a bucket that stores some data or stores some type. If i want to access the value that is stored in hello what i can do is i can simply say print hello. variables are somewhat complex you can make them equal to other variables if i decide to change the value of world to actually be equal to the variable hello. In a variable you are not allowed to have any special characters and you cannot start with a number so you are allowed to use an underscore. equal to hello is equal to tim so i will print tim now watch what we're going to get we get tim tim now what happens if i come here and i change hello to be equal to no if i do this what's going to happen is world will not change. In python the convention is typically to separate things using an underscore in other languages you may see something like hello world if you wanted to make a variable uh that has multiple words in it but in python stick with snake case which is what this is known as the other one is camelcase. You cannot start a variable with a number so 9 hello notice i'm getting the red line popping up here. We need to assign this input to a variable. We could have capitals in our variable name if we want that would be fine but i'm not going to do that. What will happen is whatever we type in will be returned to us in this statement as a string and it will be assigned to this variable. What will happen is whatever we type in will be returned to us in this statement as a string and it will be assigned to this variable name. We of course can get multiple user input so i can say something like age equals input age colon. We're going to move on and talk about how we can actually convert say numeric input into a integer or float. The next topic i want to cover is arithmetic operators these essentially are like plus minus multiplication exponent how you perform mathematical operations in python. Just something to keep in mind when we're performing and using arithmetic operators we have to make sure that the data types on the left and right hand side of these operators are the same data type. The maximum precision in python i believe is 13 decimal points there is ways to get beyond that but that is kind of too advanced. When you ever do division or you're dealing with rounding and all of that that's always a problem in computers so just keep that in mind you're not going to get the most precise answers with division like this. The division operator returns a float because it does not know if it's going to need to represent a floating point or some level of precision so just keep that in mind if for some reason you don't want this to be a float of course you can convert the result to an int by just doing int like that. The order of operations in python is brackets exponents division multiplication addition subtraction python does follow those standard order of operation if you just write an expression but of course it's always easier to use brackets and spread things out so i can say something like x mod y and then i can multiply that by two since i didn't say  x mod y. i. e it's always easier to use brackets and spread things out so i can say something like x mod y and then i can multiply that by two since i didn't say it the integer division and mod operators are in the lowest order of order of operations so if you use mod that is going to be below addition and subtraction pretty sure that's correct. The program doesn't know what to do with that so think about this why is num a string we typed in 5 this should be an int value from what we understand about our data types. even though it looks like an into us i'll explain why in a second and we cannot subtract the number 5 from it that just doesn't make any sense. Whenever you have at least one float in your arithmetic it's going to automatically return to you a float it needs to keep the level of precision that was in the original you know operation or in theOriginal value so just that's something to keep in mind whenever you're doing you know plus minus multiplication if there is one float as the operand then you are going to get a float result back. A method simply is something with a dot operator so we have dot we have sum and name whatever the method name is in this case it's going to be upper and then we have an open and close bracket or parentheses whatever you want to call them now i just want to show you what these methods do so if i say hello dot upper this is a method that we can call only on strings. Dot capitalize simply capitalizes the first letter in the string and then makes the rest of it. dot lower simply makes the entire string lower case. These are useful when you're getting user input and you want to validate and check if it's equal to something which we will do later on. The method called count counts a specific string within the string so it looks for a substring in the string and how many times that occurs. Two lowercase l's are not the same as two uppercase l's so that's why it's very important to make sure you're differentiating between capitals and lowercases. Re string lowercase so i could say hello dot lower and then i could count all of the double l's in the lowercase string so now let's look at this in this case we get the value one let's make this a little bit better by looking for how many o's there are. Now we're going to move on to conditions and conditional operators. In python you can multiply a string by an integer and that will simply repeat the string the integer number times so if i say x multiplied by y even though these aren't the same data type which i said before might cause problems since it's a string and it's an integer. We also can add two strings together which is known as a concatenation. A condition is simply something in python that evaluates or compares two variables or data types and returns to us either a true or false value based on the comparison. A comparison is either yes or no or in our case true or true so we have that true and we have these false this is boolean so the result of a comparison is simply a boolean value all right. E. e conditional operators and let me show you an example of condition let's say i have x equals hello and y equals hello i want to check for the comparison so i might do something like print x equals equals y are these two things the same let's see yes they are we get the value true now let's do the not equal to sign are these things not the same no they're not so we get false. Every single character inside of python is represented by what's known as an ascii code. We can compare the two ordinal values of these character characters and see that well actually a is greater than z. If we do this so i say a greater than b then that's going to be false because b is actually represented by 98. A chained conditional is essentially combining multiple conditions together to create one larger condition. Here is a basic example i have three conditions right i have result one result two and result three result on. You can store these things in variables i can say result equals 6 equals equals 6 and print result like that and we get the value true.  conditional operators have a lower precedence than all of the arithmetic operators so if i do something like z minus two less than x plus two well that's not going to say z and then negative 2 less than that it will evaluate on the left hand side. You can actually write expressions on each side of a conditional operator. Three keywords are what i can use to chain conditionals together and create larger larger conditions from specific conditions themselves. What i can do is do something like this i can say result 4 equals result 1 or result 2. Now what does the or operator do well the left hand side and the right hand side of or have to be a true or false value which they are. The not keyword takes whatever is on the right hand side of a value and just flips it. If i just print a instead of result 4 i print not true like that this will print the value false which you can see down there. The or and not keyword essentially says okay is what's on the left hand side and theright hand side true  The way it actually goes is not is first and is second and or is last so just keep that in mind because that will be important based on the way that you write your expression so essentially if i say false and true or true then what we're going to actually do is evaluate the true and true first and then we will evaluate the or of whatever this is and then that so in this case this would be false. The if statement essentially allows us to actually check if something occurs or if a condition is true. If that is true we can do something specific otherwise we might not do anything or we might do something differently. The syntax of an if statement is if condition colon indented block whatever i want to happen in the indented blocks. If x is equal to and then the string tim with the capital t i will simply print you are great. The addition to the if statement is of course i can add more stuff underneath this indented block. If i do tim now you see we get that space by just printing an empty print statement essentially. The l if statement can be used as many times as we want but it must come after an if and it must be before any elses so i can't just go ahead and start writing these random elifs everywhere. The l of syntax is the exact same except  except  s. s well what i can do is i can print i can add this else this else. The if l of syntax is the exact same except it starts with the el so i'm going to say l if x equals equals joe. nly ever one if only ever one else but as many lifts as we want and you'll see how this works in a second so now let's run this. In the next few sections i'm going to be talking about collections how we deal with collections looping over collections and all of that fun stuff but what is a collection well collection is simply an unordered or ordered group of elements. The two collections we're going to discuss here in this section is list and tuples so if we have a list a list looks something like this. The first thing to look at on a list is this function called len len will tell us the length of the list this also works on strings and a few other things as well but if i look at the len of x that tells me 3. ined in fact it's very important in the list so how do i actually access elements in theList? How do i deal with the list? Pop is a way to remove an element from a list. Pop is the index of what we want to remove from the list. When we print x dot pop what this will do is it will print high and it will remove high from theList. When i extend a list i can also extend the list by another list so let's say i have 4 5 and just a bunch of other stuff. Every single element in the list is identified by a number that number is known as its index otherwise known as Its position in theList. If we want to access elements of the list we can say x put these square brackets which means we're going to access something and we can put the index of the element that we want. Lists are mutable which means they can be changed i can change all of these elements and if i do something like y equals x i go ahead and i make that change to x but i don't make it to y you're going to notice that x and y will be the exact same. If i wanted to copy the list i would have to do two square brackets a colon inside. Tuple is really an immutable list you can think of it like that it means it cannot be changed once it has been defined if we want to change it we actually have to redefine it so what i can do is i can print out say x0 and that's fine that will give me the correct answer. But if i go ahead and do something like x 0 equals 5 and i try to do that you're going to notice we get an error. You can have lists inside of lists so i can say something like x dot append i can try but you're going to notice that again we'll get another error tuple object has no attribute append so this is a tuple they're not used a ton although they are used sometimes and just to note here you can do something like that. The next topic i have for you is for loops now a for loop allows us allows us to iterate a set number of times. A basic for loop is a way to iterate over a variable. It can be used to print numbers from 1 to 10. In this example we're going to use range range is a function that actually creates a collection of numbers based on the input that we give it. We can have less than three arguments inside of this range function essentially start stop step is saying okay. By default our range will start at zero and we will go to whatever number we put here most of the times you're just going to put one number and this defines the ending range. If we add 3 we'll include a step and that tells us how much we should increment every single time by default we increment by 1 but we can increment by 2. The range function works by default so for i in range again start stop step by default if you just put one argument that's going to be the stop if you put two that's start stop you can mess around with that and see how it works but i think that's enough of an explanation. The next thing we can do is actually loop through a list so let's say we have 4i in and now instead of range we'll simply just put a list. If we print i it will simply print all of the numbers in that collection or in that list it will step through one at a time and print all the numbers. If we wanted to keep track of what index we were at we could say x equals the list we'd say 4i in x and then um well sorry that actually would not be the right way to do. We could instead of just printing i we could print x square brackets i let's have a look at this here. While loops are pretty straightforward essentially what they are is while condition equals equals true go ahead and do something. i will say i equals zero say while i is less than 10 we'll say print run. i plus equals one is another way that you can add one two variables. You can also do something like i multiplied equal by 1 or divided. The while loop in python can be implemented with a break statement. The slice operator is personally my favorite part of python there is implementations in other languages but none of them are as nice as python in my opinion and what this allows us to do. The while loop can also be implemented using the while true and while true plus operator. The slice operator is simply the square brackets like this with a sequence of colons and numbers within it. The way that it works is we have a start a stop and a step just like the range function that we looked at before. If i put something like x here and then i go start stop step what i can do is say okay i want to start at zero and then stop at index. When we do the slice operator we don't have to include all of these different things as arguments in fact what we can do is just include a stop. If we do something like 2 colon that says start at 2 and stop at the end now if we leave a blank we're assuming it's either the end or the beginning or one in the case of a step. A slice operator is an easy way to reverse a list in python. say i wanted to go 4 and then colon 2 colon negative 1 what this is saying is okay start at 4 go to 2 and step by negative 1. When we look at that we get eight seven six five four three two one zero. D step by two we get hlo so that's the basics of the slice operator there's a bit more stuff that we can do with this but that is kind of how it works. Now we are moving on to sets which are an underrated but extremely useful data type in python now a set is simply an unordered unique collection of elements. To create a set is pretty straightforward we can say x equals set and we use the open bracket and close bracket now the reason we don't actually write something like say s equals and then this is because what this will do is create a dictionary. A set is used only in a situation where you care if something exists or doesn't exist not about the frequency or order in which that item exists. The set operations are pretty straightforward we can add something to a set with s dot add. you add an element inside but if you are creating an empty set then you need to use this constructor otherwise you're going to end up creating a dictionary. There's a few other things that we can do as well for a set. Using a set is very beneficial when it comes to looking things up checking if something's in there removing and deleting. There's a few other operations we can do on sets let me just define s2 and i'll just quickly show you a few of them. We can do for example the intersection or the union of these sets. Sets are essentially a key value pair you have some key you have a colon and then a value that it corresponds to. A dictionary is essentially a list it could be a single value like that and the way that you access and create new key value pairs is something like this i can print out say x and then the key inside of here in this case it's actual. To add a new key is pretty straightforward what you can do is you can say x inside of square brackets you can define whatever key you like it can already exist if you want we can say something like key2 and we can make that equal to 5. Now note that these keys do not need to be the same sorry same data type so i don't have to have two string keys i can have integer keys. Do something like x2 equals 8 and there we go. The dictionary is so fast you can kind of assume that it's in constant time although there is a chance there will be something known as hash collisions although i'm not going to talk about that because that's probably a little bit more advanced than what most of you know. What we can do here in terms of operations on the dictionaries we can check if something is in the dictionary. We can get all the values from the dictionary so we can say x dot values. We get an empty dictionary of course like i showed you before we can use that in operator and to loop over it there's actually a few interesting ways that we can do this so i can say for a key value in x dot items and then what this will do is simply return to me all the keys and values. There's a few other methods as well but i'm not going to talk about those.  python is one of the only programming languages that actually has this a lot of people absolutely hate it but i personally love it and if you learn to love it you can use it quite well now to do a comprehension. The way this works is essentially we can actually define a for loop inside of this list and what it will do is say okay we're going to loop through as if we normally would. If if i is divisible by five then what we can do is actually add it into the list. This also works for dictionaries in fact let's just do the same thing here let's make it a dictionary and now we'll just go i colon zero so we have all these keys that are initialized a. Python has a feature called functi that is not in many other languages. It allows you to construct tuples in a way that returns a generator object. This can be used in a whack of different things. It's one of the best features of python and i'll be talking about it in this video. To define a function in python you simply use the def keyword this means define then you pick your function name in this case i'm going to pick func the function names are the same as variable names in terms of how you name them. You can actually define functions inside of functions if you wanted to this is totally valid if i wanted to do something like this and then i could call funk like that. F functions are actually objects which means you can technically return them i'll show that in a second but let me talk about arguments first. Let's say i want to add the argument x y inside of here of course that means now when i call the function i need to add some value for x and for y so let's go five six. R1 comma r2 equals func 5 6. his out into different variables we could of course index at zero and index at one but a much cleaner and faster way to do this is to do something like r1 r2 and i have a look here you can see that we get 30 and then 0. 83334 that is the basis for a function. The unpack operator is an advanced way of defining a function. You can put a function inside of another function. It's not calling the function it's simply returning it. The star star quarks are a type of quark. It is a type that can be passed around just like a variable. The advanced aspect i wanted to show you about star args and star star quarks uh so i'm going to put in like this all right so before i define what this does what i'mgoing to do is just sh sh sh. gives me func 2. notice it's not calling the function it's simply returning it now i'll actually just show you what i mean. The unpack operator is used to separate elements from a list or from a collection into individual elements. The best example of this is the print statement if i print asterisk x which means unpack x what this is going to do is take all of these elements out so separate them by individual elements and pass them into the print Statement as arguments. The unpack operator unpack whatever we have in a tuple or a list or some kind of collection and sends it through as arguments to a function. This is where starargs and star star quarks come in although you'll see that in one second. The naive way to do this would be to go func okay pair and then pair 1. The unpack operator is really useful you can also use this actually on dictionaries as well and i'll show you how it works with dictionaries a little bit more complicated it involves two asterisks what this does is if i have keys i can say x representing obviously the argument x and then make that equal to 2 and then i can says y and this could represent the argument y and I'll make thatequal to 5. Now hopefully that will explain to us how starargs and star quarks work. Starargs and star star quarks allow you to pass in an unlimited amount of regular arguments and keyword arguments. If i wanted to actually use any of these what i can do is i can unpack them so first of all i canUnpackStarArguments. UnpackStarStarQuarks. This is just defining scope and global so when we look at a function like this there is a notion of a scope so we have x equals tim we have defined func and then we have name as a parameter and what we're doing is we're saying okay we're going to change x to be equal to name so esse esse.  e have defined func and then we have name as a parameter and what we're doing is we're going to change x to be equal to name so essentially if i was naive and i didn't know any better i would assume that what's going to happen is while this variable up here would change when i pass this name to this function. That's not going to work. There's a keyword called raise maybe in java you've seen something like throw and raise can raise an exception if you wanted to do that so i could raise exception and then inside of here i could just say bad you know whatever i want now if i run the program as soon as we hit that line immediately i'm going to get an exception. In python rather than having like a try catch we actually have a try except finally block so what i can do is do something like try that means i'm going to try to perform whatever code is inside of here. In an except block i can accept an exception as e what this is going to do is mean whatever the exception is will be st. If i raise an error then i can create an except block i can accept an exception as e what this is going to do is mean whatever the exception is will be stored in the variable e and then so i could print out that exception and we can continue running the program. There also is a notion of a finally block the final block will run no matter what. Lambdas are actually a really cool aspect of python i'm pretty sure they have them in many other programming languages as well but it looks something like this essentially a Lambda is a one-line anonymous function. What you can do is something like x equals Lambda x and then x plus five what this means is this lambdas is going to take one argument which is x. Lambda is a one-line anonymous function in python. It takes one argument which is x and it's going to return x plus 5 not multiplied by x. In the next one you'll see why these are useful and now i'm going to talk to you about map and filter which are two useful functions in python which make use of the lambda functions. Using map to map a list is like adding 2 to every single element of a list. What map will do is we'll use a function to map them into a new list. i put a function inside of here that i want to use for the map so this will make sense in a second but i'm going to say lambda x x plus 2. The next function i want to show you is filter so hopefully you get the idea of how map works but filter does something a little bit different. It's going to tell us whether or not we should include the item in our final filtered list or filtered object so essentially this function or whatever function we put inside of here ha. The function take some value i tells us if it's equal to or sorry divisible by 0 and if it is we'll include it. hould include the item in our final filtered list or filtered object so essentially this lambda function or whatever function we put inside of here has to return true or false based on the value of an item. F strings are new in python 3. 6 if you have any version lower than that you are not going to be able to use f strings. F strings are a really cool way to actually just manipulate and create strings so what i can do is do something like x equals and then a string notice that this will highlight or maybe it'll be a towel size. The f string can be used to embed variables in a string without concatenating them. The f string works by putting an expression inside of these curly braces it will be evaluated and then it will turn into a string. This is a great easy way to work with strings of course you can print an f string as well. This video is part of a series on python tutorials. The first video is a tutorial on object oriented programming in python. The next one is a whole series on expert level features in python i believe that's about six videos and covers things like meta classes context managers generators all of that. i hope you enjoy leave a like subscribe to the channel and of course let me know what you want to see next.